---
title: Getting Started with Git
slug: getting-started
video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F4X_HW85OhE
date: 10/03/2023
---

# Getting Started with Git

Now that you have a basic understanding of Git and its key concepts, it's time to start using it for your own projects. In this chapter, we will cover the basic Git commands that you need to know to start using Git from the command line.

## Initializing a Repository

The first step to using Git is to initialize a repository. To do this, navigate to the directory where you want to create your repository and run the following command:

`git init`

This will create a new Git repository in the current directory.

## Adding and Committing Changes

Once you have initialized a repository, you can start making changes to your code. To track these changes, you need to add them to the Git staging area. To add all changes, run the following command:

`git add .`

To add a specific file, run the following command:

`git add <filename>`

Once you have added your changes to the staging area, you need to commit them. To do this, run the following command:

`git commit -m "commit message"`

The commit message should be a brief description of the changes you made.

## Viewing the Commit History

To view the commit history for your repository, run the following command:

`git log`

This will display a list of all the commits that have been made to the repository, along with the commit message, author, and date.

## Branching and Merging

Git enables you to work on multiple features or bug fixes simultaneously by creating separate branches of the codebase. To create a new branch, run the following command:

`git branch <branch-name>`

To switch to a different branch, run the following command:

`git checkout <branch-name>`

Once you have made changes on a separate branch, you can merge those changes back into the main branch using the following command:

`git merge <branch-name>`

## Pushing and Pulling Changes

To collaborate with others on a Git repository, you need to push your changes to a remote repository and pull changes from others. To push changes to a remote repository, run the following command:

`git push <remote-name> <branch-name>`

To pull changes from a remote repository, run the following command:

`git pull <remote-name> <branch-name>`

## Working with Remotes

To work with a remote repository, you need to add it as a Git remote. To add a remote, run the following command:

`git remote add <remote-name> <remote-url>`

Once you have added a remote, you can push and pull changes to and from it using the commands in Section 5.

## Conclusion

In this chapter, we covered the basic Git commands that you need to know to start using Git from the command line. With these commands, you can initialize a repository, add and commit changes, view the commit history, create and merge branches, and collaborate with others by pushing and pulling changes to and from a remote repository. In the next chapter, we will cover more advanced Git concepts and commands.
