---
title: Advanced Git Concepts
slug: advanced
video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F4X_HW85OhE
date: 10/03/2023
order: 3
---

# Advanced Git Concepts

In the previous chapters, we covered the basics of Git, including initializing a repository, committing changes, and collaborating with others. In this chapter, we will cover more advanced Git concepts and commands.

## Git Reset

Git reset is a command that allows you to reset your repository to a previous state. This can be useful if you want to undo changes that you have made or revert to a previous commit.

To reset your repository to a previous commit, run the following command:

```
git reset `commit-hash`
```

This will reset your repository to the state it was in at the specified commit. Be careful when using this command, as it will permanently remove any changes made after the specified commit.

## Git Rebase

Git rebase is a command that allows you to change the base of your branch. This can be useful if you want to incorporate changes from another branch or rewrite your commit history.

To rebase your branch, run the following command:

```
git rebase <base-branch>
```

This will take the changes from your current branch and replay them on top of the specified base branch. Be careful when using this command, as it can create conflicts if there are changes in both branches that affect the same code.

## Git Cherry-Pick

Git cherry-pick is a command that allows you to apply a specific commit from one branch to another. This can be useful if you want to apply a bug fix or feature to a different branch.

To cherry-pick a commit, run the following command:

```
git cherry-pick <commit-hash>


```

This will apply the changes from the specified commit to your current branch. Be careful when using this command, as it can create conflicts if the changes in the commit conflict with changes in your current branch.

## Git Stash

Git stash is a command that allows you to temporarily save changes that are not yet ready to be committed. This can be useful if you need to switch to a different branch or work on a different feature without committing your changes.

To stash your changes, run the following command:

```
git stash

```

This will save your changes to a stash and remove them from your working directory. To apply the stash later, run the following command:

```
git stash apply
```

## Git Submodules

Git submodules are a way to include one Git repository inside another Git repository. This can be useful if you want to include a library or framework as part of your project.

To add a submodule, run the following command:

```
git submodule add <repository-url>

```

This will add the specified repository as a submodule of your current repository. To update a submodule to the latest version, run the following command:

```
git submodule update
```

## Conclusion

In this chapter, we covered several advanced Git concepts and commands, including git reset, git rebase, git cherry-pick, git stash, and git submodules. These commands can be useful for managing complex Git workflows and collaborating with others on larger projects. With these commands, you can undo changes, change the base of your branch, apply specific commits, save changes temporarily, and include other Git repositories as submodules of your project. In the next chapter, we will cover Git workflows for collaborative development.
